Alright in this lecture we're going to go ahead and add in over detail and volumes toward drawing.
So just like we looked at each individual grid square and copied what was in that square in a photograph
we're going to do the same thing but with our values.
So let's start with the Anga.
So if we look at the I will notice that there's a little bit of a white spot or highlight within this
black part of the eyes so let's go ahead and fill that in.
But we want to make sure that we leave that little highlight out some laying down a piece of paper so
I don't smudge any of this.
I'll go ahead and start to fill it in.
So first I'm going to kind of draw out the shape of that highlighted area so I make sure I don't draw
in there or add any dark values.
Like so and then it's not necessarily one big large white area like this.
So now I can go at it go in there and kind of add some darker values in there and make it look more
like it does in the photograph.
Perfect.
Now we can go ahead and move on to the next part of the ice so there's like a white ring that goes around
the pupil of the eye.
So we want to include that.
So what we're going to do is we're going to draw a Durka ring around the pupil of the eye.
But we're going to leave out a little whitespace around the edge of that.
And then as we come over to this area the reflection continues over this so we want to make sure we
leave out a small area right there that we can use for reflection.
Go ahead and work a little bit more on that reflection.
So it looks more similar to what we have in our photograph.
And I'm also noticing on these edges of the white ring it's a little bit darker and it's lighter on
the top and the bottom something that I had and in some dark valleys on both sides her white cream don't
go ahead and move on to the orange part of the.
So the worst part of the eye is going to be a lighter value.
But it's still going to be dirtier than white.
So let's go ahead and begin to fill that in with the mid-tone value and really the top part a little
bit lighter in the bottom a little bit darker than I'm going to go ahead and start adding in some darker
detail around the edge of that part of the.
Great then I'm noticing that right here it's a little bit darker and then transitions into this lighter
color because there's kind of the reflection appear on the top of the eye and then down here it's a
little bit darker.
Also right around there.
So go ahead and Durkan that area in perfect.
Next we're going to go out and start working on the eyelid part.
So the bird kind of has a strange sort of eyelid where it has looping sort of design on top of it like
so kind of like lace almost.
And then it's got a darker edge right above the
and it goes all the way around the ice.
Some more of that sort of Lacy texture.
They're done here in the bottom.
It's the same.
So first we want to make the edge of Eilidh.
So go ahead and Adham sort of looping texture like so
let's go ahead and add some value in there.
Then I'm going to go ahead and add in some of this feather texture so we have sort of a dark edge race
here.
You know here it's a really thin dark edge but so a little bit of a dark edge that turns into some darker
feathers.
Then underneath here we also some dirt patches on our feathers.
Those kind of turn into their own feathers.
I'm just trying to copy exactly what I see in the square.
So it's very much like drawn from life.
So if you're only drawing one grid space at a time.
Right great.
So now we just created that one square.
So basically you just want to do this with every single square until you finished the entire drawing.
And I think once you do this you'll be really impressed with how good of a drawing you can draw by using
this technique.
I'm going to go ahead and speed up this process but I want you to see how I do it.
So let's go ahead and get started.
All right that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we learn how to add the value into our grid drawing.
Now once you've completed your drawing you're free to go ahead and erase away your grid guidelines.
Now I recommend that you erase these at the end and not at the beginning because you want to use them
throughout the entire drawing to make sure that you're transferring the image correctly on to your paper.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.